README.md, before:

# np2-wasm

This is a PC-9801 / PC-9821 emulator based on [Neko Project II](http://www.yui.ne.jp/np2/) that runs in a web browser.

## Demo

https://irori.github.io/np2-wasm/

## How to Use

example.html:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
 <body>
  <canvas id="canvas"></canvas> <!-- The screen will be drawn on this canvas -->
  <script type="module" src="example.js"></script>
 </body>
</html>
```

example.js:

```js
import { NP2, NP21 } from "https://unpkg.com/np2-wasm@0.0.0/dist/np2-wasm.js";

// Create an NP2 instance specifying a canvas
const canvas = document.getElementById('canvas');
// Change this to NP21.create() if i386 emulation is needed
const np2 = await NP2.create({ canvas });

// Load a floppy disk image
const resp = await fetch('image.d88');
const data = new Uint8Array(await resp.arrayBuffer());
np2.addDiskImage('image.d88', data);

// Set the disk image to FD drive 0
np2.setFdd(0, 'image.d88');

// Run the emulator
np2.run();
```

## API
### NP2.create(config: NP2Config): Promise\<NP2>
Creates a new instance of `NP2`. `config` is an object that has the following attributes:

#### canvas: HTMLCanvasElement
The `<canvas>` element that displays the screen of the emulator.

#### onDiskChange: (name: string) => void (optional)
A callback function that is called when a write operation is performed to the disk image.
The modified image can be retrieved with the `getDiskImage()` method.

#### clk_base: number (default=2457600)
Specifies the base clock (Hz) of the CPU. Either 1996800 or 2457600 can be specified.

#### clk_mult: number (default=4)
Specifies the multiplication factor for the CPU. The actual CPU speed will be the product of this value and the base clock.

#### Latencys: number (default=250)
Specifies the output buffer size for the sound emulator in milliseconds. Please specify a number between 20 and 1000 ms.
A smaller value will shorten the delay of the sound, but it will require more CPU power.

#### use_menu: boolean (default=true)
Show the Neko Project II menu on middle-click or F11.

### NP21.create(config: NP2Config): Promise\<NP21>
Same as `NP2.create()`, but this will create an instance of the PC-9821 emulator `NP21`.

### state: 'ready' | 'running' | 'paused'
Returns the current state of the emulator.

### run(): void
Starts the emulator.

### reset(): void
Resets the emulator.

### addDiskImage(name: string, bytes: Uint8Array): void
Adds a disk image to the emulator.

### getDiskImage(name: string): Uint8Array
Returns the current content of the disk image.

### setFdd(drive: number, name: string | null): void
Sets a disk image to the floppy disk drive of the emulator.
`drive` is the drive number (0 or 1), `name` is the disk name specified in `addDiskImage`.

### setHdd(drive: number, name: string | null): void
Sets a disk image to the hard disk drive of the emulator.
`drive` is the drive number (0 or 1), `name` is the disk name specified in `addDiskImage`.
If this method is called after running `run()`, the effect is not reflected until `reset()` is called.

Commit message:

Add onExit callback API
It is called when the emulator is powered off (e.g. by the POWEROFF.COM
tool of NP2).

README.md, after:

# np2-wasm

This is a PC-9801 / PC-9821 emulator based on [Neko Project II](http://www.yui.ne.jp/np2/) that runs in a web browser.

## Demo

https://irori.github.io/np2-wasm/

## How to Use

example.html:

```html
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
 <body>
  <canvas id="canvas"></canvas> <!-- The screen will be drawn on this canvas -->
  <script type="module" src="example.js"></script>
 </body>
</html>
```

example.js:

```js
import { NP2, NP21 } from "https://unpkg.com/np2-wasm@0.0.0/dist/np2-wasm.js";

// Create an NP2 instance specifying a canvas
const canvas = document.getElementById('canvas');
// Change this to NP21.create() if i386 emulation is needed
const np2 = await NP2.create({ canvas });

// Load a floppy disk image
const resp = await fetch('image.d88');
const data = new Uint8Array(await resp.arrayBuffer());
np2.addDiskImage('image.d88', data);

// Set the disk image to FD drive 0
np2.setFdd(0, 'image.d88');

// Run the emulator
np2.run();
```

## API
### NP2.create(config: NP2Config): Promise\<NP2>
Creates a new instance of `NP2`. `config` is an object that has the following attributes:

#### canvas: HTMLCanvasElement
The `<canvas>` element that displays the screen of the emulator.

#### onDiskChange: (name: string) => void
A callback function that is called when a write operation is performed to the disk image.
The modified image can be retrieved with the `getDiskImage()` method.

#### onExit: () => void
A callback called when the emulator is powered off.
After exit, you can restart the emulator with `reset()`.

#### clk_base: number (default=2457600)
Specifies the base clock (Hz) of the CPU. Either 1996800 or 2457600 can be specified.

#### clk_mult: number (default=4)
Specifies the multiplication factor for the CPU. The actual CPU speed will be the product of this value and the base clock.

#### Latencys: number (default=250)
Specifies the output buffer size for the sound emulator in milliseconds. Please specify a number between 20 and 1000 ms.
A smaller value will shorten the delay of the sound, but it will require more CPU power.

#### use_menu: boolean (default=true)
Show the Neko Project II menu on middle-click or F11.

### NP21.create(config: NP2Config): Promise\<NP21>
Same as `NP2.create()`, but this will create an instance of the PC-9821 emulator `NP21`.

### state: 'ready' | 'running' | 'paused' | 'exited'
Returns the current state of the emulator.

### run(): void
Starts the emulator.

### reset(): void
Resets the emulator.

### addDiskImage(name: string, bytes: Uint8Array): void
Adds a disk image to the emulator.

### getDiskImage(name: string): Uint8Array
Returns the current content of the disk image.

### setFdd(drive: number, name: string | null): void
Sets a disk image to the floppy disk drive of the emulator.
`drive` is the drive number (0 or 1), `name` is the disk name specified in `addDiskImage`.

### setHdd(drive: number, name: string | null): void
Sets a disk image to the hard disk drive of the emulator.
`drive` is the drive number (0 or 1), `name` is the disk name specified in `addDiskImage`.
If this method is called after running `run()`, the effect is not reflected until `reset()` is called.
